# Message In A Bottle

## About Message In A Bottle

Message In A Bottle is a messaging app that runs off of a peer-to-peer (P2P) mesh network of compatible iOS, iPadOS, and macOS devices. The app was created to address the issue of network outages during disasters such as hurricanes, when network outages are common. We rely on our smartphones so much these days, but without a network connection they are rendered useless. We are unable to call emergency services, or reach out to loved ones to let them know if we are okay. Today, people unknowingly rely on Walkie-Talkie apps from the App Store to stay in touch in times like this. However, the issue is these apps all run over WiFi and Cellular data. By creating and utilizing a P2P mesh network between devices, we are able to communicate without a Cellular or WiFi signal, and thanks to the mesh nature of our network, expand the range with each new person using it. Users are prompted for their first and last name upon launching the app, and then asked about the status of their safety. They are given four options ranging from "Okay" to "Immediate Assistance Needed". Users who flag themselves as needing "Immediate Assistance Needed" are given red message bubbles to help them stand out to first responders. This opens up the possibility for first responders to use the app as they're attempting search and rescue to prioritize who needs help first. Users are also able to chat with each other in order to update people of their whereabouts and status. In the future, we could see this technique expanded deeper into the macOS platform, allowing one person with internet connectivity to provide the whole mesh network with a basic connection. Being better connected to those in crisis situations could help to cut down on rescue times, as well as save lives, making this a very important problem to solve.
